Episodes 21 to 40 Episode 40: The Unmentionable In the opening sowball final, theyre... In the opening sowball final, theyre going at it hammer and tongs. All the Hipharpiglanders and Baconians are in the stadium, except for King Porky ... Episode 39: The Stadium Ghosts All the Hipharpiglanders and Baconians... All the Hipharpiglanders and Baconians are in a state of great excitement, because at last the time has come: the long-awaited sowball tournament can begin. Episode 38: Sowball Fever This times, things get active: some... This times, things get active: some emerge from toilet bowls, others are submerged in bath tubs. King Porky plays with fire, and the rest of the Hipharpiglanders are to play sowball. Episode 36: The Tunnel under the Lavatory Everyone, just everyone, is in a right old jam:... Everyone, just everyone, is in a right old jam: Quiver in the prison door, the Hatey Hares in the toilet bowl and the secret passage and the government in the bath tub. And in Baconia, Al Dente has almost no subjects left, while Hipharpigland has all the more refugees. Episode 35: A Dent in the Crown Things are in a nice mess for the Hippolaus... Things are in a nice mess for the Hippolaus celebrations: the Hahaboss makes another attempt to escape, Barbaras dreams of an indoor swimming pool end up in a medieval bath tub and King Porky shows yet again that he has no idea when it comes to grandchildren and subjects. Episode 34: The Life Buoy Hippel and Hippa courageously put an... Hippel and Hippa courageously put an end to the demonstration against the reservoir, free everyone from their chains and rescue Aunty Barbara. Meanwhile, Gerald is as scared as a rabbit. And the deposed King Porky gets to know his grandson, Moritz. Episode 29: The Uprising Unrest is everywhere: the demonstration... Unrest is everywhere: the demonstration against the Hipharpiglandian reservoir goes on and on. A revolution shakes Baconia and throws its shadow on the life of the royal family. And everyone wonders: Will things be alright? Episode 28: The Little Heir to the Throne The demonstrations against the reservoir... The demonstrations against the reservoir continue, and in Baconia a revolt is also brewing. Meanwhile, Earnest at last becomes a father  and that knocks the Foreign Minister flat once again. Episode 27: The Reservoir Initiative Some secretly dig tunnels under Hipharpigland,... Some secretly dig tunnels under Hipharpigland, others knit striped playsuits, and Barbara heads for the next governmental crisis behind mountains of files. Episode 23: The Shaman of the Golden Boar At last! Judith and Earnest celebrate... At last! Judith and Earnest celebrate their wedding. It becomes an unforgettable event  thanks to an arrest, an abduction, a very special wedding dance and a lot of mud. Episode 22: The Mud-Colored Bridal Dress The Hipharpiglanders and Baconians find... The Hipharpiglanders and Baconians find out at the border how a customs duty on roots works. The wedding party is amazed at the uses to which a mud hole can be put. And the wedding is postponed yet again. Episode 21: A Taste of Round Root
